[bass guitar and shaker sounds,
keeping rhythm]
[thunder sounds, then echoes]
[bass guitar and shaker]
[sound of bubbles underwater]
[bubbles underwater]
[phone line crackling]
[electric circuit buzzing]
[bass guitar and shaker]
(Male narrator) I'm here and I'm talking
about how people, ideas, and things
fit together. How we represent culture
with maps or ecologies.
How we render something like Flickr:
people, gathered in groups,
a network of connections.
[bass and shaker]
Or, we look to
the living world for models.
Of this image we're told, microbes
in the soil consume the leaf's soft tissue
and leave only the cellulose
and lignin skeleton.
The Flickr image suggests space,
the leaf says time,
the slow decay paradoxically
revealing connections.
[bass and shaker]
It's these connections
we're about to explore.
Let's start
[bass guitar and shaker]
with language.
[thunder crashing and echoing]
I'm here and I'm talking about flow zones,
those spaces where transformation happens,
the in-betweens where we
find the breathing current.
[electric current sound]
This is old style, the focus zoomed
smack-dab to the printed word.
The truth which the poet utters can be a
approached only in terms of paradox.
We bring new focus now, but wow,
that's some hard commitment
to the power of the written,
or here the spoken, word.
Metaphors do not lie in the same plane
or fit neatly edge to edge.
There is a continual tilting, necessary
overlappings,
discrepancies,
contradictions.
[thunder cracking, echoing]
[bass and shaker]
The edges of paradox emerge with words,
arrayed and linked to new ideas.
Like how the tenor of the
metaphor makes way for its vehicle.
Words cross the connotational space,
where one idea flows into another,
where meaning develops.
In poetry we call for vehicles, red
wheelbarrows from which
we borrow attributes, modes of transport
that bring the associations
of one element
into circuit...
[jet plane approach and flyover]
with another.
[bass guitar and shaker]
(Man in blue shirt)
Hello, I'm a Mac.
[Man in trench coat)
And I am no one.
(Narrator) I'm a Mac, I'm a PC.
This commingling of human
and machine reveals
the back and forth coursing of attributes.
Virus. Spyware. Glasses. Cool shirt.
The machine and human
co-informing each other.
(Man in trench coat) You never saw me.
(Male in blue shirt) Never saw who?
(Man in trench coat) Me, PC.
(Narrator) The Mac or PC metaphors show
how people, ideas, and things
flow together in cultural networks.
The currents circulate, back and forth.
A network: it's the trace left
behind by some moving agent.
It has to be traced anew by
the passage of another vehicle,
another circulating entity.
The red wheelbarrow depends upon the
bicycle and the bus driver being on time.
[bass guitar and shaker]
Moving entities, tracing and circulating.
Fantastic detail,
Wow . . . Texture.
[bass and shaker]
Amazing focus.
My favorite color.
Relationships growing within flowing
networks of red, umber, pencil.
[jet approaching]
Power Cords. Power chords.
[jet flyover]
(Man in blue shirt) Hello, I'm a Mac.
(Man in wheelchair) And I'm a PC.
(Mac) I'm afraid to ask.
(PC) Well, I was sitting at my desk.
Someone walked by, carelessly tripped
over my power cord, yanked me straight
down to the ground, bam.
(Mac) Yikes. Macbooks come with this
power cord that connects magnetically,
so, when it gets pulled
it just pops right off and
everything is just kind of thought out,
like the tiny built in iSight camera.
(PC) My life is flashing before my eyes.
I see a sunset in a
field of beautiful wheat.
(Mac) Isn't that your screensaver?
(PC) Yeah.
[popping sound]
[bass and shaker]
(Narrator) What follows is we find
ourselves awash amid entities that give
and take shape among one another:
The Shins, Kelly Clarkson, Mac Mail,
Mastodon, Webmail,
copy, paste, copy, paste,
power cords, empathy, celebrity,
sharing, IP, music, text,
text editor, Justin, John, Hannah,
Lady Gaga, cheesy, ukulele, sun,
dust, rolling thunder, clouds crowding
circulating collections of
people, ideas, and things.
[bass guitar and shaker]
We depend on a flood...
of entities to exist.
[bubbles underwater]
To be an actor is now at last a fully
artificial and fully traceable gathering
(Mac) Hello, I'm a Mac.
(Male figure) Mac has issued a
salutation, cancel or allow?
(PC) Allow. And I'm a PC.
(Male) You are returning Mac's
salutation, cancel or allow?
(PC) Allow.
(MAC) Okay, what gives?
(Male) Mac is asking a
question, cancel or allow?
(PC) Allow. He's part of Vista, my new
operating system. PCs have a lot of
security problems, so he asks me to
authorize pretty much anything I do.
(Narrator) The concern is that these
networks constrain us, shape us,
and tell us who we are.
(Male) You are coming to a sad
realization, cancel or allow?
(PC) Allow.
(Narrator) The gatherings threaten the
human figure by binding us together,
surrounding us with ideas and things.
(Mac) Did your legal copy just grow?
(PC) Yeah, you see usually PCs require
a lot of regular maintenance,
downloading security patches, virus scans.
I can't just go out there and say,
hey, getting started on PC is the
easiest thing in the world.
(Mac) Whoa. That's a lot of legal copy.
(PC) Watch this. PCs are now
100% trouble free.
(Mac) Look at that.
(PC) That's a lot of legal copy.
(Narrator) But there is also an organic
flow, as we gather together
in circuit with machines,
an entity among entities,
[current buzzes]
conduit for streams of meaning-making
and performing action,
never powerless,
full of awareness of layerings,
knowing that categories (like worlds)
can still bring us
[bubbles underwater]
transformation.
[electric current buzzing]
I'm here and I'm talking about fitting in.
PC goes to Pandora and types in Shins.
The machine responds.
The composition is one of mixing,
but the zoom is way out.
[music by The Shins plays]
Choosing word over image
or sound feels myopic.
The composing here is one of entity in
flowing network, not type cast,
[Shins music plays]
but acting
[Shins music stops]
I'm talking about performing.
The way the network is never
hung up to dry, but always in motion,
always calling us to be composing.
What is a text? What isn't?
What is writing?
The paintbrush. The poet.
The CPU. The lungs.
The organic mechanic typing song as
worlds unfold in a streaming cast.
Fantastic detail.
What focus did you use?
[bass and shaker]
My favorite color
[bass guitar and shaker]
Through circulation we become, layer
after layer, comparable and commensurable.
[bubbles underwater]
Human.
The question is not to fight against
categories, but rather to ask:
Is the category subjecting
or subjectifying you . . . freedom
is getting out of a bad bondage,
not an absence of bonds.
All the world's a studio, and we are
but performers and mechanics,
transporting and fixing meaning
through each lignin layer.
[bubbles underwater]
[bass and shaker]
I'm here and I'm talking about the
connotational flow, the liquid mixings
of sound and light, felt-like, felt like
the composing of self
[bass and shaker]
with words.
[thunder cracking and echoing]
[bass and shaker]
I’m a map. I’m a green tree.